[Music]
whoo get ready for 11 proven tricks to
remember all your dreams heck sometimes
I can't remember what I had for lunch
scientists still don't know exactly why
we dream but what they do know with
certainty is that every person on this
planet dreams for about two hours a
night even those who claim that they
never do such people simply don't recall
their dreams luckily there are some
tricks you can use to remember your
dreams better before you find out what
they are hit that subscribe button and
ring the notification bell to join us on
the bright side
people forget approximately 95 percent
of their dreams as soon as they wake up
or shortly after brain scans done on
sleeping people show that their frontal
lobes which are responsible for memory
formation aren't active during REM or
rapid eye movement sleep and this is
exactly the stage of sleep when you
dream see the catch at the same time
though there are some ways to overcome
this problem one get a good night's
sleep when you get a proper night's rest
your mind can focus on remembering your
dreams on top of that when you sleep
enough your dreams happen with shorter
breaks in between therefore it might be
easier for you to recall them as one
long dream instead of many short ones as
you already know you see dreams during
the REM sleeping phase that's when your
body is resting and your mind is busy
dreaming what's interesting is that
periods of REM sleep get longer as the
night goes by so while your first dream
may last for about 10 minutes after you
sleep for 8 hours your dreams can get up
to 45 minutes long but when your sleep
is interrupted throughout the night you
have less REM sleep and thus fewer
dreams to avoid this scenario go to bed
and get up at the same time every day
this will ensure proper rest also try to
get from seven to nine hours of sleep
each night people who get less than six
hours of sleep usually don't remember
their dreams to start a dream journal a
dream journal can do wonders at helping
you remember your dreams place a
notebook and pen next to your bed before
you go to sleep open the notebook in
advance so that you have a blank page to
write on immediately try to put your pen
in the same place every evening to
prevent wasting time looking for it
another option is to use a recording app
or a voice memos on your phone this way
you won't need to switch on the light or
recall how to use a pen in your
zombie-like state 3 try to remember your
dream as soon as you wake up when you
wake up
don't hurry to get up it's better not to
move at all focus your attention on some
object in the room this will make it
easier for your brain to concentrate on
what you experienced in the dream try to
recall as many details as you can if
possible think it through from the very
beginning till the end be sure to write
it all down in your dream journal 4 keep
your dream journal with you of course
your dream journal should be right by
your bed when you go to sleep in the
evening but don't leave it there all the
time take it with you wherever you go
different events that happen during the
day may trigger some memories of a dream
you had the night before write down such
recollections immediately these bits and
pieces are likely to help you restore
some more details or even the whole
dream 5 wake up during the night
according to sleep experts REM stages of
sleep take place every 90 minutes that's
why you can set an alarm to wake you up
exactly at these intervals the thing is
that you remember your dreams only if
you awake from REM sleep
so the odds of remembering a dream are
much higher during the night than in the
daytime besides when you wake up in the
morning you typically remember only your
last dream it's better to wake up no
earlier than four hours after you fall
asleep the best times to set your alarm
for our four and a half six or seven and
a half hours after you go to bed once
you wake up lie still and think about
your dream
leave your alarm near your bed so you
don't have to get up to turn it off
don't use a radio alarm morning shows
and commercials will distract you and
your dream will slip away sex it's
important how you wake up you'll
remember your dreams much better if you
wake up in the morning naturally without
the help of an alarm clock if this is
unreal in your case set a timer that
will switch on the lights in your room
or ask somebody to wake you up gently
without saying anything a good idea is
to put a post-it note next to or on your
alarm clock write the question what did
you dream on this note this little
reminder will be the first thing you see
after opening your eyes otherwise you
probably won't remember to think about
your dream first thing in the morning 7
persuade your mind to remember your
dreams before you go to bed make a
deliberate decision that this night you
will remember your dreams hmm when
you're already in bed we're
laughs and free your mind from
unsettling thoughts don't use a
smartphone or laptop and pad chatting
and answering emails will also prevent
you from calming down eight don't drink
coffee or alcohol before bed avoid
drinking alcohol or coffee in the
evening the chemical content of these
products affects your brain's ability to
remember dreams for the same reason
don't take medications right before
going to bed of course unless you have
to and try to have dinner at least three
hours before you fall asleep a full
belly can also interfere with your sleep
and memory 9 take vitamin b6 supplements
a 2002 study as well as a more recent
one conducted in 2018 my researchers at
Australia's University of Adelaide
proved that vitamin b6 can seriously
improve your ability to recall your
dreams the next morning if you take 240
milligrams of vitamin b6 before you go
to sleep you'll increase your chances of
remembering what happened in your dreams
number 10
change your sleeping position a good way
to remember your dreams better is to
change your sleeping position every
night this way you interrupt your
mundane night routine and thus the
memories of your dreams are more likely
to stay in your mind one more curious
fact about sleeping positions is that
they may influence what dreams you see
when you sleep on your right side you
have more positive dreams if you prefer
to sleep on your left side you might
have nightmares more often if your
favorite sleeping position is on your
back you have a higher chance of seeing
more unsettling dreams those who sleep
on their stomachs tend to enjoy more
vivid and intense dreams well enjoy
might be the wrong word since in these
dreams
people are often blocked up
tied up or simply unable to move really
number 11
lie down in the same position you had at
night your memory is often triggered by
different external factors that's why if
it's later in the day and you're still
trying to recall a dream lie down in the
same position you had while sleeping
might help your memory your head should
be in the same exact place on your
pillow and your body should be arranged
in the same way it was at night close
your eyes and your dream may reappear in
your head or not pay how often do you
remember your dreams reveal your memory
boosting techniques in the comments
below don't forget to give this video a
like share it with your friends and
click subscribe to join us on the bright
side of life
so eat dreams